docs: fix broken link to `schemaVersion` documentation (#1611)
cube-js/cube.js: docs/content/Schema/schema-execution-environment.md

subCategory: Reference
---

Cube.js Schema Compiler uses [Node.js VM](https://nodejs.org/api/vm.html) to

> execute schema compiler code. It gives required flexibility allowing to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execute schema compiler code. It gives required flexibility allowing 
```

> transpile schema files before they get executed, allow to store schema in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transpiling schema files before they get executed and storing schema in
```

external databases and execute untrusted code in safe manner. Cube.js Schema

> JavaScript is standard JavaScript supported by Node.js starting version 8 with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
JavaScript is standard JavaScript supported by Node.js starting in version 8 with
```

> following exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the following exceptions.
```

## Require

Being executed in VM data schema JavaScript code doesn't have access to
[Node.js require](https://nodejs.org/api/modules.html#modules_require_id)
directly. Instead `require()` is implemented by Schema Compiler to provide
access to other data schema files and to regular Node.js modules. Besides that
data schema `require()` can resolve Cube.js packages such as `Funnels` unlike
standard Node.js `require()`.

## Node.js globals (process.env, console.log and others)

Data schema JavaScript code doesn't have access to any standard Node.js globals
like `process` or `console`. In order to access `process.env`, helper service
can be introduced outside of `schema` directory:

**tablePrefix.js:**

```javascript
exports.tableSchema = () => process.env.TABLE_SCHEMA;
```

**schema/Users.js**:

```javascript
import { tableSchema } from '../tablePrefix';

cube(`Users`, {
  sql: `SELECT * FROM ${tableSchema()}.users`,

  // ...
});
```

## console.log

Data schema cannot access `console.log` due to a separate

> [VM instance](https://nodejs.org/api/vm.html) runs it. Suppose you find yourself

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[VM instance](https://nodejs.org/api/vm.html) running it. Suppose you find yourself
```

[Require](#require) method.

`export` can be used to define named exports as well as default ones:

**constants.js:**

```javascript
export const TEST_USER_IDS = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
```

**usersSql.js:**

```javascript
export default (usersTable) => `select * form ${usersTable}`;
```

Later, you can `import` into the cube, wherever needed:

**Users.js**:

```javascript
// in Users.js
import { TEST_USER_IDS } from './constants';
import usersSql from './usersSql';

cube(`Users`, {
  sql: usersSql(`users`),
  measures: {
    /* ... */
  },

  dimensions: {
    /* ... */
  },

  segments: {
    excludeTestUsers: {
      sql: `${CUBE}.id NOT IN (${TEST_USER_IDS.join(', ')})`,
    },
  },
});
```

## asyncModule

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[[warning | Note]]
| Each `asyncModule` call will be invoked only once per schema compilation.
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

To trigger a schema recompile based on changes of underlying input data,
[schemaVersion][link-config-schema-version] value should change accordingly.

[link-config-schema-version]:
  https://cube.dev/docs/config#options-reference-schema-version

If there's a need to generate schema based on values from external API or

> database `asyncModule` method can be used for such scenario. `asyncModule`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
database, `asyncModule` method can be used for such scenario. `asyncModule`
```

      preAggregations: {
        main: {
          type: `originalSql`,
        },
      },
    });
  });
});
```

## Context symbols transpile

Cube.js uses custom transpiler to optimize boilerplate code around referencing

> cubes and cube members. There're reserved property names inside `cube`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cubes and cube members. There are reserved property names inside `cube`
```
